<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd" >
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!--  
 * Copyright (C) 2014 Thorbjørn Hansen.
 * 
 * Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
 * you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
 * You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
-->
<head>
  <title>TTerm – Bash</title>
  <!-- Also injects CSS style sheets. -->
  <script>prefix="../";</script>
  <script src="../lib/doc.js"/>
</head>
<body>

<div class="header">TTerm – Bash</div>

<p><a href="../shells.xhtml">
  Back to chapter "Shells and distributions".</a></p>

<p id="thh-toc-toc"></p>


<h1>Getting Bash</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<p>Android doesn't include the shell Bash, so you have to install it
yourself. I recommend
  <a href="termux.xhtml" >Termux</a>
or 
  <a href="debian.xhtml" >Debian</a>,
which include Bash and do not require 
  <a href="rooting">rooting</a>.
But if you don't want to use them, I'll list alternatives that Iam
aware of here.</p>


<h1>Bash in LineageOS</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<p>My LineageOS 14.1 build for my Samsung Galaxy Tab S 10.5 WiFi
(SM-T800, chagallwifi) seems to include Bash, but I don't know if that
is always the case.</p>

<p>If you don't know LineageOS, it is a "custom ROM", an alternative
version of Android that you can install instead of the Android
provided by your manufacturer. It's very similar to ordinary Android,
its main benefits is that it doesn't include all the additional junk
that most manufacturer add to Android, and that you can often get
newer versions of LineageOS when your manufacturer stops updating your
device's Android. It's the successor of the popular CyagenMod.</p>

<p>I'll add more info when time allows.</p>


<h1>BusyBox Install (No Root)</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<p>I used to use the app
  <a href="https://play.google.com/store/apps/details/apps/details?id=burrows.apps.busybox"
     >BusyBox Install (No Root)</a> 
by Burrows, which is the smallest app that I've found that installs
Bash without requiring rooting.</p>

<p>This used to work:</p>

<p class="indent code">
  busybox=/data/data/burrows.apps.busybox/app_busybox<br/>
  export PATH=$PATH:$busybox<br/>
  export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/system/lib:$busybox<br/>
  exec bash
</p>

<p>But as of 2017-03 it's Bash wont start because the library
<code>libncurses.so</code> is missing. I sent the developer an email,
but never received an answer.</p>

</body>
</html>
