<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd" >
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!--  
 * Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Thorbjørn Hansen.
 * 
 * The help content is *not* under an Apache License. I have not
 * decided on its license yet. Contact me at thorbj.hansen@gmail.com
 * if you want to copy, publish or use it outside of TTerm.
-->
<head>
  <title>TTerm – GNURoot Debian</title>
  <!-- Also injects CSS style sheets. -->
  <script>prefix="../";</script>
  <script src="../lib/doc.js"/>
</head>
<body>

<div class="header">TTerm – GNURoot Debian</div>

<p><a href="../shells.xhtml">
  Back to chapter "Shells and distributions".</a></p>

<p id="thh-toc-toc"></p>


<h1>About GNURoot Debian</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<p>Android's Linux layer is very small, but there are several full
Debian GNU/Linux distributions that run with <c>proot</c> or
<c>chroot</c>.</p>

<p>The excellent app
  <a href="https://play.google.com/store/apps/details/apps/details?id=com.gnuroot.debian"
     >GNURoot Debian</a>
is a <b>full Debian Linux distribution</b> that runs as an app using 
  <a href="https://proot-me.github.io" 
    ><c>proot</c></a>.
That means that it doesn't run on Android's Linux and file system like
  <a href="termux.xhtml" >Termux</a>
does, it has its own file system and starts Debian in it. It doesn't
require <a href="rooting">rooting</a>. And it has 
  <a href="emacs.xhtml" > Emacs</a>, 
hooray!</p>

<p>GNURoot Debian has its own terminal emulator, but no extra keys. So
you might want to use TTerm instead.</p>


<h1>Running GNURoot Debian in TTerm</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<p>You might want to use an external keyboard or install an on-screen
keyboard with a control key before you try these approaches, since you
might need <k>Ctrl+c</k>. For example, you can install
  <a href="https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.pocketworkstation.pckeyboard"
     >Hacker's Keyboard</a>.</p>


<h2 id="run/connect">Connect to GNURoot Debian</h2> <!--
============================================================ -->

<p>In these three approaches, you start GNURoot Debian and start a
program that you connect to from TTerm.</p>


<h3 id="run/connect/netcat">With Netcat</h3>
<!-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -->

<p>In GNURoot Debian, install Netcat:</p>

<p class="indent code">
  apt install netcat
</p>

<p>Then 
  <a href="termux.xhtml#run/connect/netcat"
    >continue as in Termux</a>, 
except that you must call Netcat as <c>netcat</c>, and stop it with
<k>Ctrl+c</k> after you log out in TTerm.</p>


<h3 id="run/connect/telnet">With Telnet</h3>
<!-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -->

<p>You can connect to GNURoot Debian via Telnet. Below is a <b>proof
of concept</b>. It will let <b>anybody</b> connect to port 2323 <b>as
root</b> and <b>without</b> asking for a password. That's <b>not</b>
something you want to do regularly.</p>

<p>In GNURoot Debian, install and setup as follows:</p>

<dl class="code-commented">
  <dt>apt install telnetd</dt>
  <dd>Install the Telnet daemon.</dd>

  <dt>cd /usr/local/bin</dt>
  <dd>Go to a directory that can contain executable files. For some
  strange reason, <c>$HOME</c> can't.</dd>

  <dt>( echo \#\!/bin/sh ; echo /bin/bash ) > s</dt>
  <dd>Create a script that starts Bash, ignoring its arguments.</dd>

  <dt>chmod a+rx s</dt>
  <dd>Make the script executable.</dd>
</dl>

<p>In GNURoot Debian, start the Telnet daemon with:</p>

<dl class="code-commented">
  <dt>/usr/sbin/in.telnetd -debug 2323 -L /usr/local/bin/s</dt>
  <dd>
    <p>Start a debugging Telnet daemon that listens on port 1111. The
    port must be over 1024.</p>

    <p> Because of the switch <c>-debug</c>,
    the Telnet daemon stays in the foreground and accepts exactly one
    connection.</p>
    
    <p>Instead of <c>login</c>, which is broken in GNURoot
    Debian, start the script <c>/usr/local/bin/s</c>. You must
    specify the full path. You can't use Bash here, since the Telnet
    daemon calls it with a switch that makes Bash exit with an error
    message.</p>
  </dd>
</dl>

<p>In TTerm with an installed 
  <a href="busybox.xhtml">BusyBox</a>, 
do the following:</p>
  
<dl class="code-commented">
  <dt>telnet localhost 2323</dt>
  <dd>Connect to port 2323 on the same device. If
  <c>localhost</c> does not work, try <c>127.0.0.1</c>
  instead.</dd>
</dl>

<p>When you've finished testing, stop the Telnet daemon in GNURoot
Debian with <k>Ctrl+d</k>.</p>



<h3>With SSH</h3>
<!-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -->

<p class="TODO">LATER I will write about this when I've found a SSH
client that runs in TTerm.</p>


<h2>As root</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<p>In this approach, you do not start the GNURoot Debian app. Instead
you start the Linux layer of Debian from inside TTerm. It requires a
  <a href="../rooting.xhtml"
     >rooted device</a>.</p>

<p>This seems to work:</p>

<ul>
  <li>Start TTerm and change to root with <c>su</c>, or to the
  GNURoot Debian user. To find out the GNURoot Debian user, start it
  and enter <c>whoami</c>, then return to TTerm. On my device it
  runs as user <c>u0_a81</c>, so I change to it with <c>su
  u0_a81</c>.</li>

  <li>
    <p>Start Debian:</p>

    <p class="indent code">
    cd /data/data/com.gnuroot.debian/support<br/>
    LD_PRELOAD=" " ./busybox sh execInPRoot</p>

    <p>It shows two errors, but seems to work anyway.</p>
  </li>
</ul>

<p>That's it, now you can start a Debian command, e.g.
<c>bash</c> or <c>emacs</c> (after installing it with
<c>apt install emacs</c>).</p>

<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<footer>
  <hr/>
  <p>Copyright (C) 2014-2018 
  <a href="mailto:thorbj.hansen@gmail.com?subject=TTerm"
     >Thorbjørn Hansen</a></p>
</footer>
</body>
</html>
