<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd" >
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!--  
 * Copyright (C) 2014 Thorbjørn Hansen.
 * 
 * Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
 * you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
 * You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
-->
<head>
  <title>TTerm – Changelog</title>
  <!-- Also injects CSS style sheets. -->
  <script>prefix="";</script>
  <script src="lib/doc.js"/>
</head>
<body>

<div class="header">TTerm – Changelog</div>

<p><a href="1-index.xhtml">Back to index.</a></p>

<p id="thh-toc-toc"></p>


<h1>Features</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<h2>Version 0.1.9 (beta) on 2017-..-..</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ol>
  <li>The setting
    <a href="#setting-utf8_by_default">
      <span class="setting">Default to UTF-8</span></a>
  is now checked by default. This is necessary to get non-ASCII
  characters like "á ä æ ı š б א".</li>

  <li id="B005">
    Fixed Bug 005, Alt-Gr does not work on hardware keyboards.
  
    <p>Apparently a configuration issue, documented
      <a href="config.xhtml#physical-keyboard"
         >how to fix it</a>.</p>
  </li>
</ol>


<h2>Version 0.1.8 (beta) on 2017-11-21</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ol>
  <li>Bug fix: "Ctrl" didn't always fit in the button. Thanks to
  Norbert Copones for the bug report.</li>

  <li>Text in extra buttons is no longer in all caps on Samsung
  devices.</li>
</ol>


<h2>Version 0.1.7 (beta) on 2017-08-05</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ol>
  <li>Bug fix: TTerm crashed if you pressed buttons before the app was
  fully initialized. Thanks to JaRR92 for the bug report.</li>
</ol>


<h2>Version 0.1.6 (beta) on 2017-07-27</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ol>
  <li>
    <p>Bug fix for Google's keyboard GBoard for "locked Ctrl" and
    "locked Fn".</p>
   
   <p>Tested on on-screen keyboards Google's GBoard, Hacker's
   Keyboard, Multiling O Keyboard and Samsung's keyboard. Also tested
   with a Bluetooth keyboard and a Bluetooth mini-keyboard. If it
   misbehaves on your keyboard, send a bug report to
     <a href="mailto:thorbj.hansen@gmail.com?subject=TTerm"
        >thorbj.hansen@gmail.com</a>.</p>
  </li>

  <li>Bug fix for Google's keyboard GBoard for a feature of version
  0.1.3: The setting <span class="setting">Close window on exit</span>
  is now off by default. When the command in the window exits, simply
  press Enter to close the window.</li>

  <li>Bug fix: Action bar is now also black for Android 5+.</li>

  <li>Improved documentation.</li>
</ol>


<h2>Version 0.1.5 (beta) on 2017-07-26</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ol>
  <li>Bug fix: Use "Theme Material" for Android 5+ devices (instead of "Theme
  DeviceDefault").</li>
</ol>


<h2>Version 0.1.4 (beta) on 2017-07-26</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ol>
  <li>The button `Ctrl´ now works in Google's keyboard "GBoard" (when
  typing, not when swiping).</li>

  <li>Added a button for `Fn´.</li>

  <li>The buttons `Ctrl´ and `Fn´ are "sticky" after one press,
  "locked" after two presses, see
    <a href="usage.xhtml#keyboard"
       >Usage: Keyboard</a>.</li>

  <li>Changed some of the mappings for `Ctrl´ and `Fn´, see
    <a href="usage.xhtml#keyboard"
       >Usage: Keyboard</a>.</li>

  <li>Fixed bug in shortcut "TTerm shortcut". It should always show the
  new window now.</li>

  <li>"Preferences" are now called "Settings", have a gear icon and a
  menu entry before "Help".</li>

  <li>Removed 4×8 pixel font. It was too small to be useful and only
  supported ASCII.</li>
</ol>


<h2>Version 0.1.3 (beta) on 2017-07-18</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ol>
  <li>TTerm now requires at least Android 4.4 to run. If you have an
  older version of Android, use 
    <a href="tea.xhtml">TEA</a>.</li>
  
  <li>Added keys for `/´ and `-´.</li>

  <li>The setting <span class="setting">Close window on exit</span> is
  now off by default. When the command in the window exits, simply press
  Enter to close the window.</li>

  <li>New service icon to distinguish TTerm from TEA, Termux and GNURoot
  Debian.</li>

  <li>Improved documentation.</li>
</ol>


<h2>Version 0.1.2 (beta) on 2015-01-19</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ol>
  <li>Improved documentation.</li>

  <li>Published sources.</li>
</ol>


<h2>Version 0.1.1 (beta) on 2014-12-21</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ol>
  <li>
    <p>Extra keys for `Ctrl´, `Tab´, `Esc´ and the cursor keys so that
    you can continue using your favorite on-screen keyboard. The
    cursor keys have auto-repeat.</p>
    
    <p>Key combinations with `Ctrl´ and `Esc´ currently only work when
    the setting <span class="setting">Input mode</span> is set to
    <i>character-based</i>.</p>
  </li>
  
  <li>
    <p>Suggestions for swiped words do not overwrite consecutive
    text.</p>
    
    <p>Some swipe keyboards display a <em>suggestion</em> which you
    have to <em>commit</em>, e.g. by pressing space or a punctuation
    key, or <em>discard</em>, e.g. by pressing backspace. For an
    example, try out the Google keyboard.</p>
    
    <p>When typing in the middle of a line, TEA's suggestion
    <em>overwrites</em> the following text until you commit. TTerm
    tries to move the following text to the right. (That's not always
    the right thing to do, but in most cases it is more intuitive than
    TEA's approach.)</p>
    
    <p>Example: Select the Google keyboard. Enter <code>one
    two</code>. Put the cursor on <code>t</code>. Enter
    <code>hello</code> without pressing space. Now TEA shows
      <code>one <span class="selected">hello</span></code>,
    and TTerm shows 
      <code>one <span class="selected">hello</span>two</code>.
    When you press space, TEA inserts <code>hello</code> and shows
    <code>two</code> again. So no text is lost, but I find TEA's
    behavior very confusing.</p>
  </li>

  <li>Local help files that you can read when you are offline.</li>

  <li>
    <p>At the moment, TTerm's GUI is in English, and I have no plans
    to translate the GUI to other languages.</p>
    
    <p>To clarify: Programs running inside TTerm can run in any
    language, but TTerm's menu and settings are in English.</p>
    
    <p>If you want your GUI in another language, you can use TEA, or
    you can download TTerm's sources to translate and build it
    yourself.</p>
  </li>
</ol>


<h1 id="code-changes">Code changes</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<h2>Version 0.1.9 (beta) on 2017-..-..</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ol>
  <li>Updated Android Studio 2.3.3 to 3.0.1, "Android Gradle Plugin"
  2.3.3 to 3.0.1, and Gradle 3.3 to 4.1.</li>

  <li>Merged all 3 modules into one module. The two samples
  `pathbroadcasts´ and `telnet´ do no longer compile.</li>

  <li>Updated `android:targetSdkVersion´ to 25 (Android 7.1).</li>
</ol>


<h2>Version 0.1.8 (beta) on 2017-11-21</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->
<ol>
  <li>Published sources on GitHub at
     <a href="https://github.com/thorhans/tterm"
        >https://github.com/thorhans/tterm</a>.
  </li>
</ol>


<h2>Version 0.1.4 (beta)</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ol>
  <li>Introduced the flavor `dev´ that builds faster.</li>

  <li>Removed lots of code and resources for Android versions older
  than 4.4.</li>

  <li>Extracted class <code>TermInputConnection</code> from
  <code>EmulatorView.onCreateInputConnection</code>.</li>
</ol>


<h2>Version 0.1.3 (beta)</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ol>
  <li>Updated to the current TEA, version 1.0.70. For details see
  the sources, file <code>/docs/tea/build-tea.txt</code>.</li>

  <li>Increased <code>android:minSdkVersion</code> to 19 (Android
  4.4).</li>

  <li>TTerm now responds to <a href="integration.xhtml"
    >TEA's intents and broadcasts</a>.</li>

  <li>Converted TTerm's code to compile in Android Studio.</li>
</ol>


<h2>Version 0.1.1 (beta)</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ol>
  <li>Renamed package <code>jackpal.androidterm</code> to
  <code>de.t2h.tterm</code> so that both TEA and TTerm can be
  installed on a device. (That makes it harder to compare TEA and
  TTerm sources. Is there a better way?)</li>

  <li>Increased <code>android:minSdkVersion</code> from 3 to 11.</li>

  <li>All code changes are marked with `T+ for additions´, `T-´ for
  deletions and `T!´ for modifications.</li>
</ol>

</body>
</html>
