<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd" >
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!--  
 * Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Thorbjørn Hansen.
 * 
 * The help content is *not* under an Apache License. I have not
 * decided on its license yet. Contact me at thorbj.hansen@gmail.com
 * if you want to copy, publish or use it outside of TTerm.
-->
<head>%
  <title>TTerm – Configuration</title>
  <!-- Also injects CSS style sheets. -->
  <script>prefix="";</script>
  <script src="lib/doc.js"/>
</head>
<body>

<div class="header">TTerm – Configuration</div>

<p><a href="1-index.xhtml">Back to index.</a></p>

<p id="thh-toc-toc"></p>


<h1>Settings</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<h2>Section "Text"</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ul>
  <li id="setting/default_to_utf8">
    Setting <b><setting>Default to UTF-8</setting></b>
  
    <p>If you use non-ASCII characters like "á ä æ ı š б", you'll want
    to check this checkbox.</p>
    
    <p>Android's default shell Mksh handles non-ASCII characters
    correctly.</p>
    
    <p class="TODO">LATER If you use the shell Bash, you'll also have to
    configure Bash correctly. I'll add more details when I figure out
    how to add Bash to TTerm.</p>
  </li>
</ul>


<!-- h2>Section "Extra keys"</h2 -->
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<!-- ul>
  <li id="setting/extra_keys">
    Setting <b><setting>Extra keys</setting></b>

    <p class="TODO">TODO ThH: Write the section before the next
    release.</p>
  </li>
</ul -->


<h2>Section "Shell"</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ul>
  <li id="setting/command_line">
    Setting <b><setting>Command line</setting></b>

    <p>When TTerm starts, it executes this command line.</p>

    <ul>
      <li><p>The default command line is:</p>
    
        <p class="indent code">
          /system/bin/sh -
        </p>

        <p class="TODO">TODO The single hyphen is a leftover from TEA.
        As far as I can discern it marks the end of options and start
        of arguments. Since there are neither options nor arguments it
        should be unnecessary, so I'll remove it in a future
        release.</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p>If you want to execute code each time you open a window in
        TTerm, for exeample to set environment variables or shell
        variables, you have two options:</p>

        <ul>
          <li>
            <p>You can add the switch <c>-l</c> to make
            <c>sh</c> a <dfn>login shell</dfn>. Then <c>sh</c>
            will execute the file <c>~/.profile</c>, where
            <c>~</c> is an abbreviation for <c>$HOME</c>.</p>
          </li>
        
          <li>
            <p>Or you can set the environment variable
            <c>ENV</c>. The usual name of the configuration file
            is <c>$HOME/.mkshrc</c>. Since <c>$HOME</c>
            and <c>~</c> do not work here, you have to look up
            the full path first. On my device it's below
            <c>/data/user/0/de.t2h.tterm</c>. This works:</p>

            <p class="indent code">
              /system/bin/env
                ENV="/data/user/0/de.t2h.tterm/files/home/.mkshrc" sh
            </p>

            <p>Yes, it's ridiculously complex.</p>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      
      <li>
        <p>The command line must begin with a full path to an executable
        command.</p>
        
        <p class="TODO">TODO If you specify a non-existing or
        unreadable file, TTerm will silently execute the default
        <c>/system/bin/sh -</c> instead. I'll change that in a
        future release.</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p>The rest of the line is interpreted as arguments. The
        arguments can be quoted with double quotes. Inside double
        quotes you can escape a quote with a backslash. No other
        processing is performed. You can't use variables.</p>

        <p>For example,</p>

        <p class="indent code">
          /system/bin/echo $PATH "a \" b"
        </p>

        <p>will print <c>$PATH a " b</c>.</p>
        
        <p>But you can let the shell expand variables for you:</p>
        
        <p class="indent code">
          /system/bin/sh -c "echo $PATH"
        </p>
        
        <p>will print the value of <c>$PATH</c> and exit.</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p>You can set environment variables and execute commands in
        <c>$PATH</c> using <c>env</c>, for example:</p>
              
        <p class="indent code">
          /system/bin/env VAR1="value 1" VAR2="value 2" sh
        </p>

        <p>sets the environment variables <c>VAR1</c> and
        <c>VAR2</c>, then searches <c>sh</c> in the paths
        of the environment variable <c>PATH</c>.</p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>

  <!-- –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– -->

  <li id="setting/initial_command">
    Setting <b><setting>Initial command</setting></b>

    <p>The <setting>initial command</setting> is sent to the shell as
    user input, i.e. as if you had typed it.</p>
  </li>
  
  <!-- –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– -->

  <li id="setting/close_window_on_exit">
    Setting <b><setting>Close window on exit</setting></b>
    
    <p>This setting is now off by default. When the command in the
    window exits, simply press Enter to close the window.</p>
  </li>

  <!-- –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– -->

  <li id="setting/verify_path">
    Setting <b><setting>Verify PATH entries</setting></b>

    <p>Removes unreadable paths from the environment variable
    <a href="#env/PATH"
       ><c>PATH</c></a>.</p>
       
    <p>For example, the default value of <c>PATH</c> is:</p>

    <p class="indent code">
      /sbin:/vendor/bin:/system/sbin:/system/bin:/system/xbin
    </p>

    <p>If this setting is checked, <c>PATH</c> will be reduced to:</p>

    <p class="indent code">
      system/bin:/system/xbin
    </p>

    <p>If you have a 
      <a href="rooting.xhtml"
         >rooted device</a>, 
    you might prefer to leave this unchecked, to keep those path
    entries for when you use <c>su</c>.</p>
  </li>
  
  <!-- –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– -->

  <li id="setting/path">
    Settings <b><setting>Allow PATH extension</setting></b> and
    <b><setting>Allow PATH prepend</setting></b>
    
    <p class="TODO">This will be replaced by a different concept in a
    future release of TTerm, since it does not work with apps compiled
    for Android 7+.</p>

    <p>It still works with apps compiled for Android 4.4 to Android 6.
    This does not depend on the version of Android <i>running</i> on
    your device, only on the version the app is <i>compiled
    for</i>, see 
      <a href="concepts.xhtml#storage/internal/share"
         >Sharing Internal Storage</a>.</p>
  </li>

  <li id="setting/HOME_folder">
    Setting <b><setting>HOME folder</setting></b>

    <p>Sets the environment variable 
      <a href="#env/HOME"><c>$HOME</c></a>
    which points to your home directory.</p>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b>Change:</b> Since version 0.2.1 (2018-01-30), the
        default for the setting
            <setting>HOME folder</setting>
        and the environment variable
          <a href="config.xhtml#env/HOME">
            <c>$HOME</c></a>
        has changed from</p>

        <p class="indent code">
          /data/user/0/de.t2h.tterm/app_HOME
        </p>

        <p>to</p>

        <p class="indent code">
          <a href="files.xhtml#/data/user/0/de.t2h.tterm/files/home"
             >/data/user/0/de.t2h.tterm/files/home</a>
        </p>

        <p>You can confinue to use the old value if you prefer it, but
        if you uninstall and reinstall TTerm it default to the new
        value.</p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>


<!-- h1 id="configure_extra_keys">Configure the extra keys</h1 -->
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<!-- 
 ! <p class="TODO">TODO ThH: Write the section before the next
 ! release.</p>
 !  
 ! <p>A key can either be special, like <k>[Control]</k>, send a key
 ! code, like <k>[Tab]</k> or <k>[Left]</k>, or send an arbitrary
 ! string like <k>/</k> or <k>.com</k>. Keys that send a string are
 ! not affected by modifier keys like <k>[Shift]</k>, <k>[Control]</k>
 ! and <k>[Fn1]</k>.</p>
 !  
 ! <p class="TODO">TODO ThH: Send keycodes does not work for all keys
 ! yet.</p>
 ! -->


<h1>Environment variables</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<p>See the explanation of 
  <a href="concepts.xhtml#env-var">environment variables in
  Linux</a>.</p>

<p>If you want to set environment variables or shell variables each
time you open a window in TTerm, place them in the file
<c>~/.profile</c>, where <c>~</c> is an abbreviation for
<c>$HOME</c>. Then add the switch <c>-l</c> to the setting
  <a href="#setting/command_line"
     ><setting>Command line</setting></a>
to make <c>sh</c> start as a login shell.</p>



<h2>List of relevant environment variables</h2>
<!-- ============================================================-->

<p>The following environment variables are relevant for TTerm:</p>

<ul>
  <li>
    <b><c>$ENV</c></b> &mdash; shell initialzation file
    
    <p>see
      <a href="run/sh.xhtml">
        Android's shell</a>.</p>
  </li>
  
  <!-- –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– -->

  <li id="env/HOME">
    <b><c>$HOME</c></b> &mdash; your home directory
    
    <p>By default, TTerm sets it to</p>
    
    <p class="indent code">
      <a href="files.xhtml#/data/user/0/de.t2h.tterm/files/home"
         >/data/user/0/de.t2h.tterm/files/home</a>
    </p>
    
    <p>You can configure it in the setting 
      <a href="#setting/HOME_folder"
         ><setting>HOME folder</setting></a>. 
    Or you can set it in one of your shell's initialization files. For
    an example, see
      <a href="run/sh.xhtml">
        Android's shell</a>.</p>

    <ul>
      <li>
        <p><b>Change:</b> Since version 0.2.1 (2018-01-30), the
        default for the setting
          <a href="config.xhtml#setting/HOME_folder">
            <setting>HOME folder</setting></a>
        and the environment variable
            <c>$HOME</c>
        has changed from</p>

        <p class="indent code">
          /data/user/0/de.t2h.tterm/app_HOME
        </p>

        <p>to</p>

        <p class="indent code">
          <a href="files.xhtml#/data/user/0/de.t2h.tterm/files/home"
             >/data/user/0/de.t2h.tterm/files/home</a>
        </p>

        <p>You can confinue to use the old value if you prefer it, but
        if you uninstall and reinstall TTerm it default to the new
        value.</p>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>

  <!-- –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– -->

  <li>
    <b><c>$LD_LIBRARY_PATH</c></b> &mdash; list of paths to
    search for libraries, separated by colons
    
    <p>For example, Bash needs the library
    <c>libncurses.so</c>.</p>
  </li>

  <!-- –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– -->

  <li id="env/PATH">
    <b><c>$PATH</c></b> &mdash; list of paths to search for
    commands, separated by colons
    
    <p>On my devices, the default value for <c>PATH</c> is:</p>
    
    <p class="indent code">
      /sbin:/vendor/bin:/system/sbin:/system/bin:/system/xbin
    </p>

    <p>If the 
      <a href="#setting/verify_path">
        setting <setting>Verify PATH entries</setting></a> 
    is checked, <c>PATH</c> will be reduced to:</p>

    <p class="indent code">
      system/bin:/system/xbin
    </p>

    <p>On my devices the default value of <c>PATH</c> is
    hardcoded in the binary <c>/init</c>. It can be set by the
    system initialization files in <c>/init.*</c> and the
    shell's initialization files.</p>
    
    <p>You can set <c>PATH</c> in the shell's initialization
    files or with <c>env</c> as described under the
      <a href="#setting/command_line"
        >setting <setting>Command line</setting></a>.</p>

    <p class="TODO">TODO I'll explain more about the
    system initialization files and the shell's initialization files
    in a future release.</p>
  </li>

  <!-- –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– -->

  <li id="env/TERM">
    <b><c>$TERM</c></b> &mdash; terminal type
    
    <p>Configure it in the setting <setting>Terminal type</setting>,
    or in one of your shell's initialization files.</p>
    
    <p>The setting <setting>Terminal type</setting> offers the
    values:</p>
    
    <ul class="narrow">
      <li><c>linux</c></li>
      <li><c>screen</c> (default)</li>
      <li><c>screen-256color</c></li>
      <li><c>vt100</c></li>
      <li><c>xterm</c></li>
    </ul>
    
    <p>Changing this setting also changes the codes that TTerm sends
    for some <k>Fn</k> key combinations.</p>
        
    <p>You have to restart the shell after changing <c>TERM</c>.</p>
  </li>    

  <!-- –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– -->

  <li>
    <b><c>$TERMINFO</c></b> &mdash; path to the Terminfo database
  </li>
</ul>

<p>I'll write more on <c>$TERM</c> and <c>$TERMINFO</c>
when time allows.</p>


<h1 id="physical-keyboard">Physical keyboard</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<p>If you have problems with a physical keyboard, try the following
steps:</p>

<ol>
  <li>The most important step to get non-ASCII characters like "á ä æ
  ı š б א" is in TTerm's Settings, where you have to check the
  checkbox
    <a href="#setting-utf8_by_default">
      <setting>Default to UTF-8</setting></a>.
  </li>

  <li>
    <p>You might have to configure your shell for UTF-8 input. 
      <a href="run/bash.xhtml">
        Bash</a>
    is particularly picky.</p>
      
    <p>To test without the shell getting in the way, start a program
    like <c>cat</c> or <c>vi</c>.</p>
  </li>
  
  <li>
    <p>You have to set the correct language-dependent <b>keyboard
    layout</b> for your physical keyboard.</p>
    
    <p>In some versions of Android, the virtual keyboard interacts
    with the physical keyboard, so you also have to set the correct
    <b>virtual keyboard</b>.</p>
    
    <p>The exact steps depend on your device and Android version. For
    example, this sets Google's virtual keyboard "Gboard" with a
    German layout on a standard Android 7 device. Device- and
    version-dependant steps are marked with (*).</p>

    <ol>
      <li>
        <p>Start the Android app "Settings".</p>
      
        <p>You should see "Settings" at the top left. (*)</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p>Search for "Languages &amp; input" or something similar, and
        press it. (*)</p>
      
        <p>You should see "Languages &amp; input" or something similar
        at the top left. (*)</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p>Press "Physical keyboard". (*)</p>
        
        <p>You should see "Physical keybard" or something similar at
        the top left. (*)</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p>If you see a list of virtual keyboards, select the virtual
        keyboard "Gboard". (*)</p>

        <p>You should see "Keyboard layouts" or something similar at
        the top left. (*)</p>
      </li>
        
      <li>
        <p>Select the correct layout, e.g. "German, Android
        keyboard".</p>
      </li>

      <li>Return to TTerm.</li>
    </ol>
  </li>
</ol>

<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<footer>
  <hr/>
  <p>Copyright (C) 2014-2018 
  <a href="mailto:thorbj.hansen@gmail.com?subject=TTerm"
     >Thorbjørn Hansen</a></p>
</footer>
</body>
</html>
