<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd" >
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!--  
 * Copyright (C) 2014 Thorbjørn Hansen.
 * 
 * Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
 * you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
 * You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
-->
<head>
  <title>TTerm – Features</title>
  <!-- Also injects CSS style sheets. -->
  <script>prefix="";</script>
  <script src="lib/doc.js"/>
</head>
<body>

<div class="header">TTerm – Features</div>

<p><a href="1-index.xhtml">Back to index.</a></p>

<p id="thh-toc-toc"></p>


<h1>Support for different keyboards</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<p>I test TTerm regularly with the on-screen keyboards:</p>

<ul class="narrow">
  <li>Swype, my current favorite</li>
  
  <li>Google's GBoard</li>
</ul>

<p>and occasionally with the on-screen keyboards:</p>

<ul class="narrow">
  <li>Hacker's Keyboard</li>

  <li>Multiling O Keyboard</li>

  <li>Samsung's keyboard on a Samsung Galaxy Tab S2 8.0 WiFi (2016),
  SM-T713, with Android 7</li>
</ul>

<p>and occasionally with Bluetooth keyboards.</p>

<p>There are a surprising amount of differences between on-screen
keyboards. If you find bugs on your favorite on-screen keyboard, send
a bug report to
  <a href="mailto:thorbj.hansen@gmail.com?subject=TTerm"
     >thorbj.hansen@gmail.com</a>.</p>

<p>You currently must set the setting <setting>input mode</setting> to
<i>character based</i>, then <em>typing</em> works in all keyboards
I've tested (where <em>typing</em> means that you press a key, release
it, then press the next key).</p>

<p><em>Swiping</em> (also called <em>gesture typing</em>) is a
different matter. Every swipe keyboard seems to behave differently, so
I'll return to that later.</p>

<p>Tested keyboards:</p>

<table class="border">
  <tr>
    <th>Keyboard</th>
    <th>Current state</th>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.android.inputmethod.latin"
            >Gboard</a></td>

    <td>As of version 0.1.6 in July 2017, typing works, swiping
    doesn't. `Ctrl´ and `Fn´ finally work.</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.pocketworkstation.pckeyboard"
           >Hacker's Keyboard</a></td>
       
    <td>As of version 0.1.6 in July 2017, typing works.</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=kl.ime.oh"
            >Multiling O Keyboard</a></td>

    <td>As of version 0.1.6 in July 2017, typing works, swiping
    doesn't.</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td>Samsung's Keyboard</td>

    <td>I've tested Samsung's keyboard on a Samsung Galaxy Tab S2 8.0
    WiFi (2016), SM-T713, with Android 7. As of version 0.1.6 in July
    2017, typing works, swiping also works (with the setting
    <setting>input mode</setting> is set to
    <i>character-based</i>).</td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.nuance.swype.dtc"
           >Swype Keyboard</a></td>

    <td>As of version 0.1.6 in July 2017, typing works, swiping
    doesn't.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<p>Other keyboards:</p>

<table class="border">
  <tr>
    <th>Keyboard</th>
    <th>Current state</th>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.aitype.android"
    >a.i.type keyboard Free</a></td>

    <td>I won't test this keyboard until they support an English QUERTZ
    layout. (Some German idiot decided to swap Y and Z so <u>z</u>ou
    can't t<u>z</u>pe on an<u>z</u> other ke<u>z</u>board when
    <u>z</u>ou have learned to t<u>z</u>pe on a German ke<u>z</u>board.)</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<p>If you find bugs on a different keyboard, send a bug report to
  <a href="mailto:thorbj.hansen@gmail.com?subject=TTerm"
     >thorbj.hansen@gmail.com</a>.</p>


<h1>Devices</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<p>I test TTerm regularly on:</p>

<ul>
  <li>a rooted Samsung Galaxy Tab S 10.5 WiFi (SM-T800, chagallwifi)
  with a 10" screen and LineageOS 14.1 (equivalent to Android 7.1
  Nougat)</li>

  <li>a rooted Samsung Galaxy Tab S2 8.0 WiFi (2016), SM-T713 that has
  a 8" screen and Android 7</li>
</ul>

<p>I occasionally test on:</p>

<ul>
  <li>an unrooted Galaxy S3 Neo (GT-I9301I) with a 4.8" screen and
  Android 4.4</li>
</ul>

<p>If you find bugs an a different device, send a bug report to
  <a href="mailto:thorbj.hansen@gmail.com?subject=TTerm"
     >thorbj.hansen@gmail.com</a>.</p>


<h1>Changes to TEA</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<p>TTerm has the same features as <a href="tea.xhtml">TEA</a>, with
the changes listed below.</p>

<p>For detailed changes, see the 
  <a href="changelog.xhtml">changelog</a>.</p>


<h2>Added features</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ul>
  <li>
    <p>Extra keys for `Ctrl´, `Tab´, `Esc´, `/, `-´, the cursor keys
    and `Fn´, so that you can continue using your favorite on-screen
    keyboard. The cursor keys have auto-repeat. For details, see 
      <a href="usage.xhtml#keyboard"
         >Usage: Keyboard</a>.</p>

    <p>Key combinations with `Ctrl´, `Esc´ and `Fn´ currently only
    work when the setting <setting>input mode</setting> is set to
    <i>character-based</i>.</p>
  </li>
  
  <li>
    <p>Suggestions for swiped words do not overwrite consecutive text.
    (As of 2017-07, this no longer works, I'll investigate it
    later.)</p>
    
    <p>Some swipe keyboards display a <em>suggestion</em> which you
    have to <em>commit</em>, e.g. by pressing space or a punctuation
    key, or <em>discard</em>, e.g. by pressing backspace. For an
    example, try out the Google keyboard.</p>
    
    <p>When typing in the middle of a line, TEA's suggestion
    <em>overwrites</em> the following text until you commit. TTerm
    tries to move the following text to the right. (That's not always
    the right thing to do, but in most cases it is more intuitive than
    TEA's approach.)</p>
    
    <p>Example: Select the Google keyboard. Enter <code>one
    two</code>. Put the cursor on <code>t</code>. Enter
    <code>hello</code> without pressing space. Now TEA shows
      <code>one <selected>hello</selected></code>,
    and TTerm shows 
      <code>one <selected>hello</selected>two</code>.
    When you press space, TEA inserts <code>hello</code> and shows
    <code>two</code> again. So no text is lost, but I find TEA's
    behavior very confusing.</p>
  </li>

  <li>Local help files that you can read when you are offline.</li>

  <li>The setting <setting>Close window on exit</setting> is now off
  by default. When the command in the window exits, simply press Enter
  to close the window.</li>
</ul>


<h2>Removed features</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ul>
  <li>TTerm requires Android 4.4 or newer to run.</li>

  <li>
    <p>At the moment, TTerm's GUI is in English, and I have no plans
    to translate the GUI to other languages.</p>
    
    <p>To clarify: Programs running inside TTerm can run in any
    language, but TTerm's menu and settings are in English.</p>
    
    <p>If you want your GUI in another language, use TEA.</p>
  </li>
</ul>



<h2>Changed features</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ul>
  <li>I've changed some of the mappings for `Ctrl´ and `Fn´, see
      <a href="usage.xhtml#keyboard"
         >Usage: Keyboard</a>.</li>
</ul>

</body>
</html>
