<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd" >
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!--  
 * Copyright (C) 2014 Thorbjørn Hansen.
 * 
 * Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
 * you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
 * You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
-->
<head>
  <title>TTerm – Introduction</title>
  <!-- Also injects CSS style sheets. -->
  <script>prefix="";</script>
  <script src="lib/doc.js"/>
</head>
<body>

<div class="header">TTerm – Introduction</div>

<p><a href="1-index.xhtml">Back to index.</a></p>

<p id="thh-toc-toc"></p>


<h1>What do you need TTerm for?</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<p>Android runs on top of a (small) Linux layer. To call Linux
commands interactively, you need a "shell" that runs in a "terminal
emulator". The shell calls the Linux commands, the terminal emulator
displays your input and the commands' output.</p>

<p>Android comes with a shell, but not with a terminal emulator,
that's what you need TTerm for.</p>

<p>I'll try to explain everything that I found difficult when I
started using Linux on Android. But you need familiarity with Linux or
Unix to understand this. If you don't understand anything that's
written here, have a look at a book about Linux for beginners before
you continue. Yes, a book about Linux, not a book about Android.</p>


<h1>Android's shell</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<p>Android's shell is in <code>/system/bin/sh</code>. Since Android
4.0 it is the MirBSD Korn shell, also called Mksh, see
  <a href="mksh.xhtml" >Android's shell</a>.</p>

<p>If you are used to a different shell or distribuition, you can
install it and have TTerm start it, see
  <a href="shells.xhtml" >Shells and distributions</a>.</p>


<h1>For the impatient</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<p>For the impatient that start using TTerm right away: If TTerm does
not behave as you expect, look at the following settings:</p>

<ul>
  <li><span class="setting">UTF-8</span></li>
  
  <li><span class="setting">Input method</span>: character based or
  word-based</li>

  <li><span class="setting">Alt key sends ESC</span></li>

  <li><span class="setting">Terminal type</span></li>

  <li><span class="setting">Send mouse events</span></li>
</ul>

<p>I'll add more details in the future.</p>


<h1>Starting a different shell</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<p>You can change the shell that is started with the setting <span
class="setting">Command line</span>. See
  <a href="shells.xhtml" >Shells and distributions</a> 
for examples.</p>

<p>You can specify an <span class="setting">Initial command</span>
that is sent to the shel as user input, i.e. as if you had typed
it.</p>


<h1>Running a command from the home screen</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<p>You can use the TTerm widget to run a command from an icon on the
home screen.</p>

</body>
</html>
