<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd" >
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!--  
 * Copyright (C) 2014 Thorbjørn Hansen.
 * 
 * Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
 * you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
 * You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
-->
<head>
  <title>TTerm – Planned features and known bugs</title>
  <!-- Also injects CSS style sheets. -->
  <script>prefix="";</script>
  <script src="lib/doc.js"/>
</head>
<body>

<div class="header">TTerm – Planned features and known bugs</div>

<p><a href="1-index.xhtml">Back to index.</a></p>

<p id="thh-toc-toc"></p>


<h1>Planned features</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<ul>
  <li>Put sources on GitHub.</li>
</ul>


<h2>Keyboard</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ul>
  <li>Add an `Alt´/`Meta´ key .</li>

  <li>Make the additional keys user-configurable.</li>
  
  <li>Provide a configurable on-screen character picker.</li>
  
  <li>
    <p>Get swipe to work for</p>
    
    <ul>
      <li>Swype

        <!-- 
        <ul>
          <li>Should auto-capitalize</li>
        
          <li>Should not add spaces after symbols (e.g. after
          <code>$</code> in <code>$TERM</code>).</li>
        </ul>
        -->
      </li>

      <li>
        <p>Google's Gboard</p>
      
        <!--
        <ul>
          <li>Should automatically insert space between words</li>

          <li>Enter should accept the suggested word cleanly</li>

          <li>Should auto-capitalize</li>
        </ul>
        -->
      </li>

      <li>Other swipe keyboards</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  
  <li>
    <p>Can we support word-based input?</p>
    
    <p>As described in <a href="#B001">bug 001</a>, word-based input
    (with a suggestion row) does not work with `Ctrl´ and `Esc´.</p>
      
    <p>I'm not sure if this can be fixed when you type directly to the
    terminal. For example take the Emacs keyboard shortcut `Ctrl-x f´.
    Can we tell the IME that `f´ is part of the shortcut, not the
    start of a new word? There are analogous problems with keys like
    `a´ and `i´ in <code>vi</code>.</p>

    <p>Maybe we could provide a button to toggle between character-
    and word-based input next to the `Ctrl´ button?</p>
    
    <p>Or we could use an idea from VX ConnectBot and provide a
    separate input field where you swipe a whole line at a time, and
    send it to the terminal when you're done. But then you can't use
    file completion in the shell, nor use keyboard shortcuts in
    editors.</p>
  </li>

  <li>
    <p>Flow control</p>
  
    <p>If TTerm does not respond to key presses, you might have
    switched "flow control" on with `Ctrl+S´. When you switch flow
    control off with `Ctrl+Q´, the terminal will process all pending
    input. This is so confusing that I'll add a setting to switch it
    off in a future version of TTerm.</p>
  </li>
</ul>


<h2>Settings</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ul>
  <li>Add explanations to the settings.</li>

  <li>In the font size settings, show the resulting number of columns
  and rows.</li>
</ul>  


<h2>Terminal</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ul>
  <li>
    <!-- See `TODO.txt´, section "Terminal" -->

    <p>Find out how to make `C-l´ clear the screen in Android's
    default shell Mksh and in the Bash that comes with BusyBox by
    Burrows, or provide an alternative.</p>
  </li>

  <li>
    <p>Make "alternate screen" support optional</p>
    
    <p>Console programs (i.e. programs that write to any part of the
    screen, like Emacs, <code>less</code> and <code>vi</code>, as
    opposed to CLI commands that only write to the end of the screen
    buffer) must use Termcap's <code>ti</code> or Terminfo's
    <code>smcup</code> capability when they start, and Termcap's
    <code>te</code> or Terminfo's <code>rmcup</code> capability when
    they end.</p>
    
    <p>On terminals that support an "alternate screen",
    <code>ti</code>/<code>smcup</code> also switch to the alternate
    screen, and <code>te</code>/<code>rmcup</code> switch back. The
    result is that quitting a program like <code>less</code> or
    <code>vi</code> removes its output, which is extremely annoying
    when you use them to look up something that you want to use
    afterwards. So we'll provide a way to switch it off.</p>
    
    <p>You should actually be able to configure that with
    <code>$TERM</code> (the setting <span class="setting">Report
    terminal type</span> and <code>$TERMINFO</code>, but that does not
    seem to work for several programs out in the wild.</p>
  </li>
</ul>


<h2>Touch support</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ul>
  <li>Support selections. The obvious gesture "touch &amp; drag" is
  already used to scroll. Also add paste button?</li>
</ul>


<h1>Known bugs</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->
<!-- Next bug: 007. -->


<h2>Keyboard</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ul>
  <li id="B001">Bug 001, low prio: Key combinations with `Ctrl´, `Esc´
  and `Fn´ currently only work when the setting <span
  class="setting">Input mode</span> is set to <i>character-based</i>.
  There are analogous problems with keys like `a´ and `i´ in
  <code>vi</code>.</li>

  <li id="B003">
    <p>Bug 003, low prio: The keyboard disappears after a long
    inactivity, but the buttons stay.</p>
    
    <p>Fix: Tap screen twice.</p>
  </li>

  <li id="B005">Bug 005, Alt-Gr does not work on hardware
  keyboards.</li>
  
  <li id="B006">
    <p>Bug 006: The additional keys are too big on phones in portrait
    mode. Choose an appropriate default font size.</p>
    
    <p>Fix: Set "extra keys' size" in settings.</p>
  </li>
</ul>


<h2>Terminal</h2>
<!-- ============================================================ -->

<ul>
  <li id="B002">
    <p>Bug 002, high prio: Programs get confused when screen height
    changes</p> 

    <p>I've seen the problem often in Emacs, sometimes in Vi (which I
    only use rarely).</p>

    <p>The problems are not always the same. Sometimes Emacs recovers
    easily by running this function:</p>

    <p class="indent code">
    (defun x ()<br/>
      (interactive)<br/>
      (redraw-frame (selected-frame)))</p>
      
    <p>Other times you need to suspend Emacs and execute</p>
    
    <p class="indent code">stty rows 32 # Or whatever number is
    appropriate.</p>

    <p>In Unix, the terminal must inform the foreground job when when
    the window height changes by sending the signal WINCH ("window
    change"). Which part of the code handles that?</p>
  </li>
</ul>


<h1>Other tasks</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<ul>
  <li>See TODOs in source files.</li>
</ul>

</body>
</html>
