<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd" >
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!--  
 * Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Thorbjørn Hansen.
 * 
 * The help content is *not* under an Apache License. I have not
 * decided on its license yet. Contact me at thorbj.hansen@gmail.com
 * if you want to copy, publish or use it outside of TTerm.
-->
<head>
  <title>TTerm – Rooting</title>
  <!-- Also injects CSS style sheets. -->
  <script>prefix="";</script>
  <script src="lib/doc.js"/>
</head>
<body>

<div class="header">TTerm – Rooting</div>

<p><a href="1-index.xhtml">Back to index.</a></p>

<p id="thh-toc-toc"></p>


<h1>Rooting</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<p>You do not need to root your device to use TTerm. Some of the
things described in these help pages may require root, but they are
optional.</p>

<p>So what's this rooting?</p>

<p>On a rooted device, any app can request "root permissions". In
TTerm, you can run programs as "root" using <c>su</c>. Root is
also called "superuser", and is the Linux equivalent of an
"Administrator" in Windows.</p>

<p>Since root lets you circumvent most restrictions on an Android
device, most manufacturers do not support it. So the Android community
needs to find a way to root the devices anyway. Even on devices that
support root like Google's Nexus devices it can be a complicated
procedure.</p>

<p>So prepare yourself for some days of online research, confusion and
several tries before you get it to work. Be aware that a mistake may
"brick" your device, that is, render it into an expensive and useless
brick. (A "soft bricked device" can be fixed, a "hard bricked device"
can't be fixed.) Back up everything before you start, since a
successful rooting may delete all data on your device - and
unsuccessful rootings may delete even more.</p>

<p>The best starting points for rooting that I have found are:</p>

<ul>
  <li><a href="http://www.xda-developers.com/root"
         >http://www.xda-developers.com/root</a></li>

  <li><a href="http://www.androidcentral.com/root"
         >http://www.androidcentral.com/root</a></li>
</ul>


<h1>Changing files in <c>/system</c></h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->
  
<p class="TODO">LATER I'll explain how to change files in
<c>/system</c> in a future release.</p>

<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<footer>
  <hr/>
  <p>Copyright (C) 2014-2018 
  <a href="mailto:thorbj.hansen@gmail.com?subject=TTerm"
     >Thorbjørn Hansen</a></p>
</footer>
</body>
</html>
