<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd" >
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<!--  
 * Copyright (C) 2014 Thorbjørn Hansen.
 * 
 * Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
 * you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
 * You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
-->
<head>
  <title>TTerm – Shells and distributions</title>
  <!-- Also injects CSS style sheets. -->
  <script>prefix="";</script>
  <script src="lib/doc.js"/>
</head>
<body>

<div class="header">TTerm – Shells and distributions</div>

<p><a href="1-index.xhtml">Back to index.</a></p>

<p id="thh-toc-toc"></p>


<h1>Shells and distribuitions</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<ul>
  <li><a href="run/sh.xhtml"     >Android's shell in TTerm</a></li>
  <li><a href="run/busybox.xhtml">BusyBox in TTerm</a></li>
  <li><a href="run/bash.xhtml"   >Bash in TTerm</a></li>
  <li><a href="run/termux.xhtml" >Termux in TTerm</a></li>
  <li><a href="run/debian.xhtml" >Debian in TTerm</a></li>
</ul>


<h1>About shells and distribuitions</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<p>Android runs on top of a (small) Linux layer. To call Linux
commands interactively, you need a "shell" and a "terminal
emulator".</p>

<p>TTerm is the <dfn>terminal emulator</dfn>. It displays your
input (what you type) and the commands' output, but it doesn't
actually execute any Linux commands. That's the job of the
<dfn>shell</dfn>. The shell actually understands your input and calls
the Linux commands that you specify. The corresponding thing in
Windows are the two "command shells" <code>cmd</code> and
<code>powershell</code>.</p>

<p>Linux offers many different shells. This chapter lists some
alternatives that I've tested in TTerm.</p>

<p>The shell contains some <dfn>built-in command</dfn>s, also called
<dfn>built-in</dfn>s, like <code>cd</code> to change the shell's
current directory. But most commands are not part of the shell, even
basic commands like <code>ls</code> to list the contents of a
directory, or <code>cp</code> to copy a file  A Linux
<dfn>distribution</dfn> is a prepackaged sets of Linux commands that
you can install.</p>

<p>Linux also offers many different distribuitions. This chapter lists
some alternatives that I've tested in TTerm.</p>


<h1>Further reading</h1>
<!-- ************************************************************ -->

<p>I'll try to explain everything that I found difficult when I
started using Linux on Android. But you need familiarity with Linux or
Unix to understand this. If you don't understand anything that's
written here, have a look at a book about Linux for beginners before
you continue. Yes, a book about Linux, not a book about Android.</p>

<p>If you just want to understand the terms on this page:</p>

<ul>
  <li>Read more about <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terminal_emulator"
         >terminal emulators</a>.</li>
         
  <li>A shell is a "command line interpreter", abbreviated CLI, read more
  about 
    <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shell_(computing)#Text_(CLI)_shells"
       >CLI shells</a> and 
    <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command-line_interface"
       >command-line interfaces</a>.</li>
       
  <li>Read more about 
    <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux_distribution"
       >Linux distributions</a>.
  </li>
</ul>

</body>
</html>
